{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10980\viewh7840\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 general, well written and easy to follow\
* word count, target journal\
* what about devsci? currently in jslhr type format\
* 
\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
i\'92d reread whole thing with tense streamlining in mind.
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Methods 
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Table 1:\
* some of these demo features seem a bit surprising so let\'92s double check:\
* there\'92s one child who is an american indian or alaska native in each sample?\
* we really have 44% unknown race for the sighted sample?\
* 0% of sighted sample is doctoral degree?\
* 50% of sighted sample is not Hispanic or latino but 0% IS hispanic or latino?\
\
Table 2: part before the colon hard to parse\
* Test: could be T or Wilcoxon but t-test seems unparalleled to Wilcoxon bc both are tests\
* blind mean, median, range: if you\'92re gonna do at least 2 lines per cell then can it always be \
mean, median\
range\
unit\
* by \'91raw\'92 p-value in header do you mean uncorrected?\
\
Fig 1:\
what does \'93amount of text\'94 mean and what is each column?\
\
Fig 2 through 5: \
* you\'92re saying whether things differed in your matched comparisons which is great bu then that sparks the question of whether they do in your stacked bars, so should say for both\
* fig 4:  i can\'92t see the error bars on the TTR very well, can the dot size be smaller? (you could also start y axis at .4 if you say you\'92re doing so imho)\
 * for comparisons where values ARE significantly different can we do something visual to show that like e.g. red error bars instead of black or something that pops out?\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 1/30/24 picked back up at start of methods\
METHODS\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 * some micro edits \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs23\fsmilli11623 \cf0 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
*  NA%\'94\
* can you just confirm with Zhenya that the way you\'92re characterizing the high vol selection process is right? i thought there was some kind of consideration of who the talker was in the ranking but maybe i\'92m misremembering\
* 
\f2\b quantity: \
* 
\f0\b0 could also cite the new PNAS paper where we go into great depth about validation of things like (or derived from) AWC in the Si
\f2\b \
*
\f0\b0 we had some back and forth over slack about some things that seemed weird with the word count numbers, please have a look. \
*wrt footnote 2: i would express things per hour not per half an hour, it\'92s a more intuitive unit.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 * terminology/detail point: adult word count vs. manual word count feels weirdly unparallel; what about aAWC or mAWC for automated/manual adult word count? Or does MWC include non-adults? either way some tweaks or clarification needed (i.e. if it\'92s not just adults you\'92ll want to say what percent is from other kids, i\'92m guessing it\'92s still vast majority from adults)\
*
\f2\b\fs23\fsmilli11623 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Type-Token Ratio.: 
\f0\b0 hm i\'92m confused about the standardization you\'92re doing. i agree that TTR changes with sample length, but these are literally coming from the same number of minutes of language. scaling it by how many words are in those minutes seems like a bizarre transformation. i\'92m happy to be convinced otherwise, but my current view is that given that it\'92s over 30min for each recording, it should be just straight up Types/tokens. \
* 
\f2\b MLU calculation:
\f0\b0  there\'92s a couple of missing details: once you calculated MLU per speaker did you then average that for the final MLU number, or?\
* glad to see that manual vs. udpipe MLU is so highly correlated! did udpipe under or overshoot significantly relative to manual in that 10? (not sure we need to add it to paper but i am curious)\
* 
\f2\b Proportion of temporally-displaced verbs
\f0\b0 : \
* \'93future hypothetical categories in\'85\'94 rendering errors in the refs with parenthesis i think you don\'92t intend\
* hm, 15% of data being uncategorized for temporality isn\'92t such small potatoes. Can these 1423 utterances be manually tagged? should be quick work esp if it\'92s mostly fragments or lack of relevant features, should be essentially all non-displaced. 
\fs24 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
* similar comment to above but more critical here since its more errors: did the auto measure tend to OVER or UNDER estimate temporal-displacement? And for those 200ish utterances where there was disagreement, was it changed to the manual (i.e. much more likely to be correct) value for analysis? (i.e. you should definitely keep the 10% separate to calculate reliability but then in cases of disagreement there should be a clear statement of what was done, which in most cases i would guess is going with the human value not the automated one, but this in part depends on whether there\'92s systematicity in the error pattern)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 *
\fs23\fsmilli11623 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Proportion of highly visual words:\
*
\f0\b0  this paragraph needs a little bit of tweaking for the naive reader to be able to follow.\
* lets say explicitly that every word in lancaster gets a score on each of the however many there are dimensions. \
*lets clarify how many of the words in our transcripts have a corresponding word in Lancaster. \
* the link between your footnote 3 and the statement it\'92s clarifying needs a little more glue. The sentence says you categorize words as amodal or multimodal, but the footnote is talking about maximum perceptual ratings and exclusivity, and also modal, multimodal, and visual. So i think you probably want something in line like \'91low ratings across modalities (i.e. all scores <X for each sense),..multimodal(a score >Y for more than one sense)\'92 or something like that . then the footnote can clarify whatever you\'92re trying to say further. Does the \'91these values were chosen bc for a subset of words they aligned with human judgments\'92 part mean it was based on your intuitions from looking at it? that\'92s fine but you could just say it more simply: These values were chosen based on authors\'92 intuitions regarding what thresholds seemed to classify the words well into modal, multimodal, and visual phenomena. That said, results are robust across a range of thresholds, and all data are provided to interested readers should they be interested in considering other values.\'94 or something\
* ah you\'92ve buried the lede a bit with sticking in \'91content\'92 words at the end! makes sense to constrain to content words, but just say so earlier:)\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Results
\f0\b0 \
* i really like the intuitive units part for ling features and conceptual features and wanted something like that for input quant and interaction, i.e. not just the stats that they\'92re not different, but the means or medians or whatever\'92s appropriate for each (based on t vs. wilcoxon). \
* are the p values you\'92re stating the uncorrected ones? if so then .027 is not <.025 for ttr for instance \
\
\

\f2\b Discussion
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 * hm i think i\'92d reword this sentence \'93This is worth emphasizing and re-emphasizing: across developmental contexts, including, as we show here, visual experience, children\'92s language input is resoundingly similar (Bergelson et al., 2022).\'94\
bc it\'92s not that their input is similar, it\'92s that everyone\'92s input is so different but this differences isn\'92t organized by group in many different notions of group. So maybe \'93That is, in line with recent work highlighting that within-group differences are immense across many different socio-cultural and linguistic contexts (Bergelson et al, 2023), so too are they resoundingly variable within blind and sighted infants\'92 homes. The strikingly different visual contexts we examined here have at best modest differences in the speech environments they surrounded young learners with.\'94 or something?\
* \'93Given that blind children frequently experience language delays,\'94 you can be more precise here, i\'92m not sure the surface-level interp of this sentence is a fair characterization and no need to raise the hackles that take L&G blind = sighted as gospel when we can say something more specific. suggestion; nix the first TWO sentences of this paragraph altogether, it\'92s a bit of a red herring to your main point. Start with \'91Our results uncover\'85\'92  Then in the next paragraph, start with something like \'93At the same time, recent results show that blind children have a roughly half-year delay in their productive vocabulary, relative to sighted peers. This naturally leads to the question of whether language input may play a role in this delay.\'94 and then pick back up with \'93In our predominantly pre-lexical\'85\'94\
* some misplaced parens in that second discussion para\
*  i think the in our predominantly para needs a bit of work: so one possibility as you say is that if it\'92s the same for blind and sighted kids, more of xyz should \'91benefit\'92 kids (this is vague, but i think you\'92re collapsing various skills beyond lang prod, but invoking ling structure feels a little out of place or needs a bit more said). If so, more xyz should help. then you say the alternative is input does something different so maybe they need less complex input, but we think not. But there are two other things on the table we should mention. One of that there\'92s a developmental dimension here: that complex input is good but that is usually comes in for older kids so younger kids (e.g. the blind kids here, who are younger than the ttr/displaced/mlu effects you sight in sighted kids, right? ) can\'92t leverage it as well and it takes them a little longer to break into the system. Another possibility is that the input works exactly the same for both groups, and the delay is something that works its way out, and is bc the early hard-earned initial vocab may indeed be a greater hurdle without the referential and social support often attained through vision. (you can think about the late talker literature in parallel, leslie rescorla etc, : something like half of late talker just end up catching up, no problem. it just comes out in the wash. that may be the case here\'94\
anyway this is the place you get carte blanche to carefully spectulate, let\'92s take advantage!\
\'97> relatedly, we might also want to say something an bit more overt about dev/age/etc., even though we can\'92t really look at it but have controlled for it.}